INTRODUCTION 
Photosynthesis is what makes this world go. From the air you breathe to the food you eat, in the end, it's all light driven by plants, algae, and smaller cells. Knowing this, you can understand how important it is to know how photosynthesis works. If we knew that exactly, we might be able to artificially improve this natural process and help with the production of food, fuel, and many other chemicals we need in our lives.

JOURNEY INTO THE LEAF 
Imagine going up to a tree. This tree has many parts: Roots, a stem, branches, leaves. All of which are important to the tree's function and there are researchers interested in understanding them. 
Let's focus for now on the leaf since this is where photosynthesis happens. Take a step towards the tree and look at the leaf. It has an intricate structure with a network of veins running through a sheet of green photosynthetic cells. And there are other cells: Plant hairs, gas-exchanging stomates, and more. Even in just a leaf, there are many different functioning sets that all warrant investigation. 
But let's again focus on the green cells, the mesophyll, cells place of most photosynthesis. So imagine taking another step forward and looking inside the cell. You see it filled to the brim with again different parts with their own jobs: The vacuole, which gives the cell structure; the nucleus packing the genetic information; the chloroplast, where the light is being captured; and so many more organelles. And let's take another step towards the chloroplast to investigate how light gives energy to our cell. 
On this level, you see how the light hits the millions of proteins that do their jobs within this confined space. Special ones among them, the photosystems, can take up that light, juggle with electrons, and pass them on. A whole miniature machinery is fueled by them, leading to the production and consumption of things. Many of them leave or enter the chloroplasts from other parts of the cell. Everything changes constantly! And in there, we sit and wonder: How does photosynthesis work?

PAM MEASUREMENTS 
Have you ever wondered how scientists measure the photosynthetic activity of plants? One way is through a PAM measurement. PAM stands for Pulse Amplitude Modulation, and it measures the fluorescence of chlorophyll molecules within a leaf. We are going to be using this PAM fluorometer to measure the fluorescence of chlorophyll in a plant. First, we need to make sure that the plant is dark-adapted for at least 12 hours. Next, we will clip this probe onto the leaf and flash it with a brief pulse of light. The chlorophyll molecules will absorb the light and emit a burst of fluorescence, which we can measure with the detector. We start the measurement that gives us a graph of the fluorescence emitted by the chlorophyll molecules over time. This graph can tell us about the photosynthetic stress of the plant. The graph has several parameters, including F0, which is the initial fluorescence level before the pulse of light, and Fm, which is the maximum fluorescence level. The ratio of Fv to Fm gives us a maximum Quantum efficiency of the photosystem 2, which is an indicator of the plant's overall health. Through PAM measurements, scientists can gain insights into the photosynthetic health of plants, which can help with crop management and climate change research. 

MAKING A MODEL 
That means understanding what happens within, simplifying some parts, and ignoring others. And what you get is a concept of how the system works at its core. Next, the mathematical language helps us to make this concept into a tangible, researchable thing. Turn the proteins, molecules, reactions, and everything else into numbers and equations. Depending on what you're interested in, there are many ways of doing this, and often, you will need to put a lot of time and data into your model to make it work. But that work pays off because now you don't have to ponder on what happens but you can calculate and simulate it. And this is the part that makes modelling special: What you simulate is up to you. You can change about the model what you like and find out what that does. For example, try out a new protein and reaction on the cell; change the light and environment and see how your cell does there; and if you've measured some data, see if your model behaves the same. You could even try to find out what keeps the cell from making much sugar! There are so many possibilities. If you can program it, you can try it. Because today, this research is done digitally. You can program the whole model and have the computer answer the questions you ask. 

SLIDER USAGE 
In this video, you will get important information about using the sliders and analyzing the graphs. You have already learned what the graphs will look like and that they can be calculated and created by our own computer model. Now, you can adjust the PAM parameters with the sliders to create your individual test scenario and click the button to see the resulting graph. 
But how do we analyze the graph? Well, that depends on what you are looking for. The fluorescence is plotted on the y-axis, and the times are plotted on the x-axis. For the fluorescent, the maximum fluorescence at the saturation pulse was measured first. Then, the measured fluorescence was plotted by the maximum fluorescence. To see the increase or decrease of the stress of the plant over a period of time, we could connect the peaks of the pulses and look at the progression. Finally, I want to share two tips with you: First, if you want to compare two PAM tests, you can download the graphs by clicking the three dots in the top right corner. Second, if you want to cancel the calculation process, you need to click on the 'Stop' in the upper right corner of the PAM app. Now, have fun and analyze the graph you have created on your own.